---
title: Reflections on Week 6
date: 2013-03-08 09:01 -07:00
tags:
---

This week was a mixture of feeling good about advancing my understanding and feeling like i am falling even further behind. At the beginning of the TrafficSpy project, my partner, Rafael, and i decided that i would not be able to make many valuable contributions to the project because there were still some big gaps in my understanding of basic Ruby syntax. So we structured our time together as tutoring sessions to help raise my level of understanding. From my perspective, this worked out wonderfully. I feel like i learned more this week than i have in any previous week. We were able to review basic concepts and push the boundaries of my learning without spending unnecessary time on ideas that were too advanced. We spent a lot of time on ruby basics (like method structure, scope, and loops) but i feel like it has given me a much stronger foundation to build upon as the course progresses.

The challenges of spending a week on doing remedial work is that i felt very disconnected from the TrafficSpy project and from my colleagues who were consumed with by it. I could not intelligently talk about the project or even identify with the particular problems and challenges that everyone else was dealing with. And i felt like i was not learning the lessons that everyone else was gaining from this project. Despite the sense of disconnect, however, i feel that my time with Rafael was very well spent on the work that we did and i would like to find a way to continue learning the skills and tools that i'm lacking, even if it means not fully participating in the current assigned project. But i hope to get to a level of understanding (soon) that enables me to make worthwhile contributions to any assigned project.

Harper Reed and the Obama campaign's tech team gave a talk at Galvanize last night. I loved it! It was really interesting to hear about the unique challenges that the campaign faced - both on the tech side and on the human relations side. It renewed an interest that i have in using tech to promote public participation in the political system and the speakers provided some insight about how that can be accomplished. Overall, the event offered another, thus far lacking, dimension of the gSchool experience. I'm not sure how to articulate it but it is something like engagement with the personalities and culture of the tech community. We have had speakers in class before, but it was a different experience to engage with a speaker within the larger context of the Galvanize community. For the first time, it felt like our class was part of a larger culture... I can't quite describe the feeling... but there was something about the event that made the gSchool experience feel fuller and more well-rounded.