---
title: Retrospective for Week 5
date: 2013-03-01 09:02 -07:00
tags:
---

So we've been in gSchool for a month now and i feel like my progress has been much slower than i expected. After the first week, it was clear that i needed to do a lot of work to "catch up" to the rest of the class. I thought that after a few weeks of working on fundamental tools and concepts, i would have a solid foundation and be able to collaborate on projects with everyone else. This hasn't happened like i thought it would. I have improved my understanding a little bit but, in comparison to the time and effort invested, the growth of my understanding has been incredibly disappointing.

I feel like i am still confused by even the most basic syntax and code. A few times in the last week i have looked at a project or exercise that we are working on and i have felt utterly lost. And it helped me understand how people feel when they can't read. I have never had the experience of not being able to read but i immediately knew that this is how it must feel. It is so debilitating. You look at a bunch of text that you *know* should make some kind of sense but it just doesn't mean anything. It literally feels like a foreign language that is inaccessible by my mind. And then when i think about how everyone else can read it (on some level) and how little i've come to understand in the last month, it makes me feel stupid. I just don't understand why the material isn't "clicking". I know i'm capable of understanding it; i know i'm putting in the work to understand it; and i know it will eventually sink in; but until it starts to become clear, i feel frustrated about how much i'm missing out on.

The other students in the class have been helpful when i've needed it but it also feels hard to communicate with them when they are working on specific projects and i am having trouble with basic concepts. I feel like i am always needing to ask for tutoring help, which doesn't always align with the work that they are doing to complete our projects. I feel like my relationship with everyone is good but i think it will greatly improve when i can relate to them as more of a colleague - someone who can contribute a working understanding of our current project - instead of someone who always needs things explained more.

I am not looking forward to the "individual skills evaluation." I know how deficient my skills are at this point and it will be embarrassing to have them highlighted in relief with my fellow classmates.

My resolution for the next month is to undertake a more methodical study of Ruby, from the ground up, and to get as much tutoring as possible. Until now, i have been trying to study the basics on my own, while trying to participate in the projects and exercises that we do as a class. But this usually leads to a very superficial understanding of a wide variety of concepts and does not offer enough time for a more examined study of the core concepts that i need to learn. One of the things that i was very effective at studying was chess. I studied chess by taking it apart and painstakingly analyzing every aspect of the game until i had a very deep understanding of the pieces, planning, strategy, and theoretical knowledge. I now realize that i need to take the same approach with Ruby. No matter how long it takes, i need to break it down and analyze it piece by piece.